README.md, before:

# VIKI: Sovereign Digital Intelligence
> **Autonomous AI Agent System | Orythix Cognitive Architecture | Virtual Intelligence Knowledge Interface**

<div align="center">

**Polymorphic Intelligence | Recursive Governance | Autonomous Self-Forging**

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-7.3.0-blue.svg)](./CHANGELOG.md)
[![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Ollama](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ollama-Local_LLM-orange.svg)](https://ollama.ai)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](./LICENSE)

---

**VIKI** is an open-source **autonomous AI agent** and **Sovereign Digital Intelligence** for absolute privacy and **local-first** operation. Run with **Ollama**, **Phi-3**, **Mistral**, or **DeepSeek**—no cloud required. Uses the **Orythix Cognitive Architecture** for deep reasoning, multi-tool orchestration, and recursive self-improvement without leaking your data.

[Features](#core-pillars-v730) • [Architecture](#technical-architecture) • [Quick Start](#quick-start) • [Security](#security--ethics)

</div>

---

## The Sovereign Evolution

VIKI is a **Sovereign Digital Intelligence** designed to be more than just an assistant—she is a partner that evolves alongside your workflow. Built on a foundation of **local-first privacy** and **deterministic governance**, VIKI balances the raw power of LLMs with the safety of a modular, capability-aware architecture.

### Core Pillars (v7.3.0)

*   **Intelligence Governance**: Powered by the **Judgment Engine**. Every directive is filtered through a cognitive triage (Reflex, Shallow, Deep) to ensure the right model is used for the right task while maintaining absolute safety.
*   **The Neural Forge**: A integrated pipeline in the core kernel. VIKI extracts "Wisdom" from her SQLite-backed semantic memory and automatically forges new, project-aware model variants (e.g., `viki-evolved`) based on **Phi-3**, **Mistral**, and **DeepSeek-R1**.
*   **Capability-Aware Execution**: Granular permission gating. Skills like `filesystem_write` and `shell_exec` are managed by a centralized `CapabilityRegistry`, ensuring high-risk actions never bypass security protocols.
*   **Recursive Self-Reflection**: Utilizing the **Reflection Layer**, VIKI critiques her own plans before execution, reducing hallucinations and improving tool-use accuracy.
*   **Unified Persistence Layer**: A multi-tiered SQLite architecture that allows VIKI to retain project context, user preferences, and historical lessons without the overhead of legacy JSON files.

### What makes VIKI specific

VIKI is not a generic assistant. It is differentiated by:

*   **Local Neural Forge**: Evolves model variants from your interactions and lessons—no cloud training.
*   **Orythix governance**: Ethical governor, judgment engine, and capability gating keep behavior deterministic and auditable.
*   **Reflex layer**: Fast, low-latency intent recognition for habitual tasks without full deliberation.
*   **Air-gap capable**: Run with no external API calls; all reasoning and evolution stay on your machine.

### Personas

One codebase, multiple specialized “VIKIs”. Switch by setting `system.persona` in `viki/config/settings.yaml` or the `VIKI_PERSONA` environment variable.

| Persona     | Focus                    | Use when                          |
|------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| **sovereign** | Full capability (default) | You want all skills and no filter. |
| **dev**      | Coding, Forge, shell, FS  | You want a local-first coding partner. |
| **research** | Search, recall, browser   | You want accurate, cited research. |
| **home**     | Calendar, email, media, voice | You want a life/productivity assistant. |

Example: `VIKI_PERSONA=dev python viki/main.py` runs VIKI Dev with only dev-focused skills.

### Task delivery and comparison (more than Manus)

Like universal agents that deliver finished work (e.g. [Manus](https://www.manusai.info/)), VIKI delivers complete artifacts, not just suggestions:

- **Data analysis**: Load CSV/Excel, describe stats, visualize (charts), optional LLM summary (`data_analysis` skill).
- **Presentations**: Generate PowerPoint (PPTX) from an outline or from natural language (`presentation` skill).
- **Spreadsheets**: Create or update XLSX and CSV from headers/rows or list-of-dicts (`spreadsheet` skill).
- **Websites**: Static site scaffold or custom pages (HTML/CSS) in the workspace (`website` skill).
- **Existing**: PDF edit, image generation, research, code execution (sandboxed), browser automation.

VIKI goes further: **voice** (TTS/STT), **smart home** (e.g. Hue), **Obsidian** vault, **tasks** (file or Things 3), **Twitter**, **Whisper** transcription, **unified messaging** (Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp), **local Neural Forge**, **Orythix governance**, and **air-gap capable** operation. The API exposes `subtasks` and `total_steps` for task progress; the CLI emits progress events during multi-step ReAct.

---

## Technical Architecture

### 🌌 **The Nexus Stack (OpenClaw-Grade Autonomy)**
VIKI is no longer confined to a single terminal. She is a multi-platform autonomous presence:
- **Unified Messaging Nexus**: Simultaneous integration with **Telegram, Discord, Slack, and WhatsApp**.
- **Autonomous Productivity**: Managed via dedicated **Email** and **Calendar** skills.
- **Deep Research**: Real-time web browsing and information synthesis using Playwright.
- **System Orchestration**: Cross-platform control for Windows, macOS, and Linux.

VIKI operates on a **5-Layer Consciousness Stack**:

1.  **Perception**: Ingests multi-modal inputs (Text, Visuals, Signals).
2.  **Interpretation**: Judgment Engine classifies intent and risk.
3.  **Deliberation**: The Cortex reasons across specialized local models.
4.  **Reflection**: Evaluates the plan against safety and logic constraints.
5.  **Execution**: Capability-gated skill deployment via the Controller.

### Directory Structure

```text
VIKI/
├── viki/
│   ├── core/               # Cognitive Kernel (Judgment, Cortex, Learning)
│   ├── config/             # Orchestration & Soul profiles
│   ├── skills/             # Modular Ability System (FS, Shell, Research)
│   ├── api/                # Unified Nexus (Discord, Telegram, Web)
│   └── main.py             # Autoritative Entry point
├── data/                   # SQLite Persistent Wisdom & Facts
├── logs/                   # Structured Telemetry & Audit Trails
└── tests/                  # Core stability & Benchmark suites
```

---

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
*   **Python 3.11+**
*   **Ollama CLI**: Installed and running (`ollama serve`).
*   **Recommended Models**: `phi3` (Reflex), `deepseek-r1` (Reasoning).

### Installation
1.  **Clone & Initialize**:
    ```powershell
    git clone https://github.com/toozuuu/viki.git
    cd viki
    python -m venv .venv
    ./.venv/Scripts/Activate.ps1
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2.  **Configure environment** (recommended so paths and secrets are not hardcoded):
    ```powershell
    copy .env.example .env
    # Edit .env and set VIKI_API_KEY, VIKI_ADMIN_SECRET, and optionally VIKI_DATA_DIR, VIKI_WORKSPACE_DIR, VIKI_PERSONA.
    ```
    Or set variables manually. For API: `VIKI_API_KEY` and `VIKI_ADMIN_SECRET` are required. Generate with:
    ```powershell
    python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
    ```
    See [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md) and `.env.example` for all options.

3.  **Launch VIKI (CLI)**:
    ```powershell
    python viki/main.py
    ```

### Using VIKI from the CLI (like Claude Code)

Install the `viki` command so you can run it from any directory with the current (or a given) project as workspace:

- **Install**: From the repo root, run `pip install -e .` (or use the one-line install scripts below).
- **Run**:
  - `viki` — use current directory as workspace.
  - `viki /path/to/project` — use that directory as workspace.
  - `VIKI_PERSONA=dev viki` — run with the dev persona (coding-focused skills).
- **Confirm/reject**: When VIKI asks "Confirm to proceed" for a medium or destructive action, reply `yes` or `confirm` to run it, or `no` or `reject` to cancel. You can also use `/confirm` or `/reject`.
- **Useful in-chat commands**: `/help`, `/skills`, `/shadow` (simulate only), `/scan` (re-scan workspace codebase).

**One-line install (optional)**:

- Windows: `irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/toozuuu/viki/main/install.ps1 | iex` (or from repo: `.\install.ps1`)
- Unix: `curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/toozuuu/viki/main/install.sh | bash` (or from repo: `./install.sh`)

4.  **Launch with Hologram Face UI** (talk to VIKI with voice):
    ```powershell
    # Terminal 1: start the UI
    cd ui && npm run dev

    # Terminal 2: start VIKI with API and open browser to the hologram
    python viki/main.py --ui
    ```
    The app opens at `http://localhost:5173` with the **Hologram** view by default: a hologram-style face and voice conversation (browser speech-to-text and text-to-speech). Use **Full dashboard** to switch to the text chat view. The UI requires the same API key: set `VITE_VIKI_API_KEY` in `ui/.env` (or in your shell when building) to match `VIKI_API_KEY`. See [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md).

5.  **Launch Dashboard (UI) only**:
    Open two terminals:
    - Terminal 1 (API): `python viki/api/server.py` — API requires `Authorization: Bearer $VIKI_API_KEY` for all requests.
    - Terminal 2 (UI): `cd ui; npm run dev`
    Access at `http://localhost:5173`

---

## The Forge Workflow: "Baking Intelligence"

Unlike static bots, VIKI grows. Every 10 stable lessons learned, she initiates a **Neural Evolution**:

1.  **Interact**: Use VIKI for your dev tasks.
2.  **Learn**: VIKI stores "Lessons" in her internal SQLite knowledge base.
3.  **Forge**: The system automatically triggers the forge when stability milestones are met.
4.  **Verify**: VIKI now responds with built-in awareness of your latest project state, no RAG required.

---

## Security & Ethics
*   **API Authentication**: All API endpoints require `VIKI_API_KEY`. Set via environment variable; see [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md).
*   **Admin Commands**: Super-admin uses `VIKI_ADMIN_SECRET` (env). Never commit secrets; use env or a secrets manager.
*   **Privacy**: 100% Local. No telemetry. No external API calls unless explicitly configured for internet research.
*   **Control**: Every skill run passes `validate_action`; file paths are sandboxed (dev_tools, whisper, PDF, data_analysis, filesystem). Shell command chaining is treated as destructive. Output and logs redact secrets.
*   **Audit**: Check `logs/viki.log` and `viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md` for capability checks and setup.

## Documentation
| Document | Description |
|----------|--------------|
| [SETUP.md](SETUP.md) | Installation and environment |
| [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) | System design and data flow |
| [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) | Version history |
| [viki/DOCS_INDEX.md](viki/DOCS_INDEX.md) | Index of all viki documentation |
| [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md) | Security configuration |
| [viki/IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md](viki/IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md) | Security & stability fixes |
| [viki/MODEL_ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md](viki/MODEL_ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md) | Model improvement system |
| [viki/ARCHITECTURE_REFACTOR.md](viki/ARCHITECTURE_REFACTOR.md) | Future refactoring roadmap |
| [viki/OBSERVABILITY.md](viki/OBSERVABILITY.md) | Logging and metrics plan |
| [viki/PERFORMANCE_NOTES.md](viki/PERFORMANCE_NOTES.md) | Performance optimization notes |

---

## Keywords and topics

**Local AI agent** · **Autonomous AI** · **Ollama** · **LLM agent** · **Privacy-first AI** · **Sovereign AI** · **Open-source AI assistant** · **ReAct agent** · **Capability gating** · **Neural Forge** · **Self-improving AI** · **CLI AI** · **Python AI agent** · **Orythix** · **Local LLM** · **Air-gap AI** · **Tool-use agent** · **Reflex reasoning** · **Multi-model routing**

---

**VIKI: Virtual Intelligence, Real Evolution.**  
Designed by Orythix001. 2026.

Commit message:

docs: Update README and server configuration for Docker support
- Added instructions for running the API with Docker in README.md, including environment setup and UI configuration.
- Modified server.py to allow binding to localhost by default, with an option to set the host for Docker environments via FLASK_HOST.

README.md, after:

# VIKI: Sovereign Digital Intelligence
> **Autonomous AI Agent System | Orythix Cognitive Architecture | Virtual Intelligence Knowledge Interface**

<div align="center">

**Polymorphic Intelligence | Recursive Governance | Autonomous Self-Forging**

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-7.3.0-blue.svg)](./CHANGELOG.md)
[![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Ollama](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ollama-Local_LLM-orange.svg)](https://ollama.ai)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-green.svg)](./LICENSE)

---

**VIKI** is an open-source **autonomous AI agent** and **Sovereign Digital Intelligence** for absolute privacy and **local-first** operation. Run with **Ollama**, **Phi-3**, **Mistral**, or **DeepSeek**—no cloud required. Uses the **Orythix Cognitive Architecture** for deep reasoning, multi-tool orchestration, and recursive self-improvement without leaking your data.

[Features](#core-pillars-v730) • [Architecture](#technical-architecture) • [Quick Start](#quick-start) • [Security](#security--ethics)

</div>

---

## The Sovereign Evolution

VIKI is a **Sovereign Digital Intelligence** designed to be more than just an assistant—she is a partner that evolves alongside your workflow. Built on a foundation of **local-first privacy** and **deterministic governance**, VIKI balances the raw power of LLMs with the safety of a modular, capability-aware architecture.

### Core Pillars (v7.3.0)

*   **Intelligence Governance**: Powered by the **Judgment Engine**. Every directive is filtered through a cognitive triage (Reflex, Shallow, Deep) to ensure the right model is used for the right task while maintaining absolute safety.
*   **The Neural Forge**: A integrated pipeline in the core kernel. VIKI extracts "Wisdom" from her SQLite-backed semantic memory and automatically forges new, project-aware model variants (e.g., `viki-evolved`) based on **Phi-3**, **Mistral**, and **DeepSeek-R1**.
*   **Capability-Aware Execution**: Granular permission gating. Skills like `filesystem_write` and `shell_exec` are managed by a centralized `CapabilityRegistry`, ensuring high-risk actions never bypass security protocols.
*   **Recursive Self-Reflection**: Utilizing the **Reflection Layer**, VIKI critiques her own plans before execution, reducing hallucinations and improving tool-use accuracy.
*   **Unified Persistence Layer**: A multi-tiered SQLite architecture that allows VIKI to retain project context, user preferences, and historical lessons without the overhead of legacy JSON files.

### What makes VIKI specific

VIKI is not a generic assistant. It is differentiated by:

*   **Local Neural Forge**: Evolves model variants from your interactions and lessons—no cloud training.
*   **Orythix governance**: Ethical governor, judgment engine, and capability gating keep behavior deterministic and auditable.
*   **Reflex layer**: Fast, low-latency intent recognition for habitual tasks without full deliberation.
*   **Air-gap capable**: Run with no external API calls; all reasoning and evolution stay on your machine.

### Personas

One codebase, multiple specialized “VIKIs”. Switch by setting `system.persona` in `viki/config/settings.yaml` or the `VIKI_PERSONA` environment variable.

| Persona     | Focus                    | Use when                          |
|------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| **sovereign** | Full capability (default) | You want all skills and no filter. |
| **dev**      | Coding, Forge, shell, FS  | You want a local-first coding partner. |
| **research** | Search, recall, browser   | You want accurate, cited research. |
| **home**     | Calendar, email, media, voice | You want a life/productivity assistant. |

Example: `VIKI_PERSONA=dev python viki/main.py` runs VIKI Dev with only dev-focused skills.

### Task delivery and comparison (more than Manus)

Like universal agents that deliver finished work (e.g. [Manus](https://www.manusai.info/)), VIKI delivers complete artifacts, not just suggestions:

- **Data analysis**: Load CSV/Excel, describe stats, visualize (charts), optional LLM summary (`data_analysis` skill).
- **Presentations**: Generate PowerPoint (PPTX) from an outline or from natural language (`presentation` skill).
- **Spreadsheets**: Create or update XLSX and CSV from headers/rows or list-of-dicts (`spreadsheet` skill).
- **Websites**: Static site scaffold or custom pages (HTML/CSS) in the workspace (`website` skill).
- **Existing**: PDF edit, image generation, research, code execution (sandboxed), browser automation.

VIKI goes further: **voice** (TTS/STT), **smart home** (e.g. Hue), **Obsidian** vault, **tasks** (file or Things 3), **Twitter**, **Whisper** transcription, **unified messaging** (Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp), **local Neural Forge**, **Orythix governance**, and **air-gap capable** operation. The API exposes `subtasks` and `total_steps` for task progress; the CLI emits progress events during multi-step ReAct.

---

## Technical Architecture

### 🌌 **The Nexus Stack (OpenClaw-Grade Autonomy)**
VIKI is no longer confined to a single terminal. She is a multi-platform autonomous presence:
- **Unified Messaging Nexus**: Simultaneous integration with **Telegram, Discord, Slack, and WhatsApp**.
- **Autonomous Productivity**: Managed via dedicated **Email** and **Calendar** skills.
- **Deep Research**: Real-time web browsing and information synthesis using Playwright.
- **System Orchestration**: Cross-platform control for Windows, macOS, and Linux.

VIKI operates on a **5-Layer Consciousness Stack**:

1.  **Perception**: Ingests multi-modal inputs (Text, Visuals, Signals).
2.  **Interpretation**: Judgment Engine classifies intent and risk.
3.  **Deliberation**: The Cortex reasons across specialized local models.
4.  **Reflection**: Evaluates the plan against safety and logic constraints.
5.  **Execution**: Capability-gated skill deployment via the Controller.

### Directory Structure

```text
VIKI/
├── viki/
│   ├── core/               # Cognitive Kernel (Judgment, Cortex, Learning)
│   ├── config/             # Orchestration & Soul profiles
│   ├── skills/             # Modular Ability System (FS, Shell, Research)
│   ├── api/                # Unified Nexus (Discord, Telegram, Web)
│   └── main.py             # Autoritative Entry point
├── data/                   # SQLite Persistent Wisdom & Facts
├── logs/                   # Structured Telemetry & Audit Trails
└── tests/                  # Core stability & Benchmark suites
```

---

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
*   **Python 3.11+**
*   **Ollama CLI**: Installed and running (`ollama serve`).
*   **Recommended Models**: `phi3` (Reflex), `deepseek-r1` (Reasoning).

### Installation
1.  **Clone & Initialize**:
    ```powershell
    git clone https://github.com/toozuuu/viki.git
    cd viki
    python -m venv .venv
    ./.venv/Scripts/Activate.ps1
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2.  **Configure environment** (recommended so paths and secrets are not hardcoded):
    ```powershell
    copy .env.example .env
    # Edit .env and set VIKI_API_KEY, VIKI_ADMIN_SECRET, and optionally VIKI_DATA_DIR, VIKI_WORKSPACE_DIR, VIKI_PERSONA.
    ```
    Or set variables manually. For API: `VIKI_API_KEY` and `VIKI_ADMIN_SECRET` are required. Generate with:
    ```powershell
    python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
    ```
    See [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md) and `.env.example` for all options.

3.  **Launch VIKI (CLI)**:
    ```powershell
    python viki/main.py
    ```

### Using VIKI from the CLI (like Claude Code)

Install the `viki` command so you can run it from any directory with the current (or a given) project as workspace:

- **Install**: From the repo root, run `pip install -e .` (or use the one-line install scripts below).
- **Run**:
  - `viki` — use current directory as workspace.
  - `viki /path/to/project` — use that directory as workspace.
  - `VIKI_PERSONA=dev viki` — run with the dev persona (coding-focused skills).
- **Confirm/reject**: When VIKI asks "Confirm to proceed" for a medium or destructive action, reply `yes` or `confirm` to run it, or `no` or `reject` to cancel. You can also use `/confirm` or `/reject`.
- **Useful in-chat commands**: `/help`, `/skills`, `/shadow` (simulate only), `/scan` (re-scan workspace codebase).

**One-line install (optional)**:

- Windows: `irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/toozuuu/viki/main/install.ps1 | iex` (or from repo: `.\install.ps1`)
- Unix: `curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/toozuuu/viki/main/install.sh | bash` (or from repo: `./install.sh`)

4.  **Launch with Hologram Face UI** (talk to VIKI with voice):
    ```powershell
    # Terminal 1: start the UI
    cd ui && npm run dev

    # Terminal 2: start VIKI with API and open browser to the hologram
    python viki/main.py --ui
    ```
    The app opens at `http://localhost:5173` with the **Hologram** view by default: a hologram-style face and voice conversation (browser speech-to-text and text-to-speech). Use **Full dashboard** to switch to the text chat view. The UI requires the same API key: set `VITE_VIKI_API_KEY` in `ui/.env` (or in your shell when building) to match `VIKI_API_KEY`. See [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md).

5.  **Launch Dashboard (UI) only**:
    Open two terminals:
    - Terminal 1 (API): `python viki/api/server.py` — API requires `Authorization: Bearer $VIKI_API_KEY` for all requests.
    - Terminal 2 (UI): `cd ui; npm run dev`
    Access at `http://localhost:5173`

6.  **Run with Docker**:
    Build and run the API in a container. Ollama should be running on the host (or in another container). See [DOCKER.md](DOCKER.md) for details.
    ```powershell
    copy .env.example .env
    # Edit .env and set VIKI_API_KEY (required)
    docker compose up --build
    ```
    Then run the UI on the host: `cd ui && npm run dev`, and set `VITE_VIKI_API_BASE=http://localhost:5000/api` in `ui/.env`. On Windows/Mac the compose file sets `OLLAMA_HOST=http://host.docker.internal:11434` so the container can reach Ollama on the host.

---

## The Forge Workflow: "Baking Intelligence"

Unlike static bots, VIKI grows. Every 10 stable lessons learned, she initiates a **Neural Evolution**:

1.  **Interact**: Use VIKI for your dev tasks.
2.  **Learn**: VIKI stores "Lessons" in her internal SQLite knowledge base.
3.  **Forge**: The system automatically triggers the forge when stability milestones are met.
4.  **Verify**: VIKI now responds with built-in awareness of your latest project state, no RAG required.

---

## Security & Ethics
*   **API Authentication**: All API endpoints require `VIKI_API_KEY`. Set via environment variable; see [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md).
*   **Admin Commands**: Super-admin uses `VIKI_ADMIN_SECRET` (env). Never commit secrets; use env or a secrets manager.
*   **Privacy**: 100% Local. No telemetry. No external API calls unless explicitly configured for internet research.
*   **Control**: Every skill run passes `validate_action`; file paths are sandboxed (dev_tools, whisper, PDF, data_analysis, filesystem). Shell command chaining is treated as destructive. Output and logs redact secrets.
*   **Audit**: Check `logs/viki.log` and `viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md` for capability checks and setup.

## Documentation
| Document | Description |
|----------|--------------|
| [DOCKER.md](DOCKER.md) | Run VIKI in Docker and use Docker from the agent |
| [SETUP.md](SETUP.md) | Installation and environment |
| [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) | System design and data flow |
| [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) | Version history |
| [viki/DOCS_INDEX.md](viki/DOCS_INDEX.md) | Index of all viki documentation |
| [viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md](viki/SECURITY_SETUP.md) | Security configuration |
| [viki/IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md](viki/IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md) | Security & stability fixes |
| [viki/MODEL_ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md](viki/MODEL_ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md) | Model improvement system |
| [viki/ARCHITECTURE_REFACTOR.md](viki/ARCHITECTURE_REFACTOR.md) | Future refactoring roadmap |
| [viki/OBSERVABILITY.md](viki/OBSERVABILITY.md) | Logging and metrics plan |
| [viki/PERFORMANCE_NOTES.md](viki/PERFORMANCE_NOTES.md) | Performance optimization notes |

---

## Keywords and topics

**Local AI agent** · **Autonomous AI** · **Ollama** · **LLM agent** · **Privacy-first AI** · **Sovereign AI** · **Open-source AI assistant** · **ReAct agent** · **Capability gating** · **Neural Forge** · **Self-improving AI** · **CLI AI** · **Python AI agent** · **Orythix** · **Local LLM** · **Air-gap AI** · **Tool-use agent** · **Reflex reasoning** · **Multi-model routing**

---

**VIKI: Virtual Intelligence, Real Evolution.**  
Designed by Orythix001. 2026.
